so uh
today i'm going to share what we have
learned in building postman to
a 5.6 billion dollar company so far when
we submitted the talk it was a two
billion dollar company so you can be
assured that the advice in this
presentation is almost three times more
validated
so uh before we begin and i want to
share at postman we are building the api
first world we believe that apis are the
building blocks of all modern software
and that's a big shift that's happening
in the software industry today
but we started small you know postman
started as a side project of mine back
in 2012 and it took us some time to you
know kind of get that developer feedback
and incorporate as a company which
started in 2014
uh our first sas product launched in
and then we work very hard to scale the
adoption of that product across teams
leading up to a point where we launched
uh the enterprise version of our
platform uh this year
now when we started you know there were
a lot of unknowns and what i believed
the typical company path and you would
see a lot of that you know in books and
at conferences was this you know the
founder has a you know magical insight
or founders have you know a product or a
technical insight and
you know using that insight they go
towards building their first product or
probably the first iteration of their
product
then a lot of focus is to kind of get to
this product market fit which i saw
being defined as you know one million of
ar so one million is this kind of
magical number where you kind of hit it
and people expect that okay your product
is going to work for you know future uh
customers
and then typically depending on which
kind of market that you're in uh either
you're expected to hit 5 million or 10
million error and you know once you hit
that number i was like wow
everybody who has hit 10 million irr is
like the happiest you know founder on
earth like i just i just want to be that
founder i want to get to 10 million in
er because everything is going to be
like so awesome you know after that it's
just rinse and repeat and i just i just
want to be i just want to be there
and
you know of course
uh
things don't work
that well
and i mean i i saw that uh
you know how things can go wrong when i
talk to founders when i was myself in
the journey and
i think the primary problem i saw
was
everybody believes that you know this
product market fit event is like the
single magical event at which you know
everything's going to start working and
then you know sales and marketing is
going to be brought on and those are the
primary problems that we need to solve
for the company
and
after that event you know uh founders
and early product leaders kind of become
very reactive in the sense to those
problems you know they kind of lose that
particular
uh
momentum that they had in the early
phases of the journey when they were
looking for insights and they wanted to
solve you know customer problems
and unfortunately what happens is that
you know it's a multi-year journey to
start a company and build a company your
market evolves and uh you know new
insights stop happening
and as you know the focus moves into
other areas it becomes a big source of
problem uh problems for the company
so how this reflects in numbers
is
you know you slowly see that while you
were on this you know 200 300
you know growth rate here over here uh
those growth rates start to stall and
you could see that happening in slow
motion but uh you know when it hits you
it hits you pretty hard and uh you know
you see that customers are either stuck
at a particular point or they've stopped
buying or you know they're not expanding
uh as fast as you know what you uh how
you thought you know uh things would go
and
you know at that particular point in a
company's history uh
everybody's just trying to figure out
what went wrong and you know there is uh
a new marketing leader brought on
there's a new sales leader brought on
everybody is pointing at you know
everybody else that okay that's where
the problem lies and you know people are
trying to kind of figure out what's not
working
so uh you know as i looked at and as i
was in my journey at other companies
facing these issues i was like you know
why does this happen and
uh
the the primary thing that i took away
was you know as you are in this
forward uh
motion of you know trying to hit those
er multiples trying to scale
companies effectively you know they stop
listening actively
because you're so busy telling your
story and you have to tell the story to
employees to investors to customers that
you don't build that motion to listen
actively to customers and we'll talk
about the kinds of customers who you
should listen to
so
uh
this one quote i really liked from you
know simon
[Music]
simon sinek's book called the infinite
game
and you know what he talks about is
this notion of you know uh business
being kind of never done and you know we
always look at business as this notion
of hitting milestones but effectively
you are coming into work your employees
are coming to work every day every week
every month every year and you have to
continue solving for you know your
customers problems by building you know
a better and better product and and
when i saw that you know what i perceive
product market fit to be was more of a
continuum you know it's you hit many
many many events in your journey of
building a company where you're
attacking you know specific set of
customers uh or you know solving new
kinds of problems that you didn't
perceive and sometimes even the nature
of the product that you design has to
change dramatically
and often you know it doesn't have to be
like this shock to the system as a
company which it's often you know
perceived as or even you know uh there's
always this notion of a god founder who
has magical insights and you know once
once the founder speaks then you know
the strategy has to change i've seen
that causes a lot of friction in
companies in product and engineering
teams and sales teams and in marketing
teams so i always thought about you know
how can how can companies
and and postman itself can adopt this
idea of product market fit being a
continuum and and listen actively
actively and build up uh uh build a
product in successive you know weekly
monthly cycles
so
uh
so the first thing to realize is that
you know your product needs to continue
evolving after you put it out to meet
the needs of your existing customers you
know one uh one challenge that people
have is that as you're trying to kind of
you know up level your price point you
start thinking about newer customers and
you don't really service customers who
have bought into your vision already and
uh you need to make sure that a part of
your organization is focused on their
needs and their pain points even after
the sale has happened and it could be
just your first customer or first 10
customers or even 100 customers so
uh
you know they might have small feature
requests they might have you know new
areas that they want fixes in
you know i've tried so many different
products where you know that
you're not going to see an update in
that product for the next few years and
why that's happening is that you can see
from the outside that the focus of the
organization has shifted to doing
something else so you need to focus
as a founder or as a leader you know you
need to keep an eye on
the needs of your existing customers
and
at the same time you need to continue
evolving the product for the needs of
these new and probably better customers
so that's the other thing here that
while you're looking at how you're
servicing your existing customers
as a leader you're keeping an eye on you
know
who are customers out there who are
probably not of the same time same type
who have bought from you before
and you know it's actually surprising
when you kind of hit uh hit that
customer you know in in often uh
in many many scenarios what i've seen is
that people get very tied down to a few
existing customers who they believe are
going to be the archetype of all new
customers you're going to see
and suddenly you know uh while you're
busy solving for all all of their
problems this new customer arrives and
you know they get your pitch they get
your uh uh sales motion they get the
product and it just seems to be you know
meeting a friend and you know the
magical thing is that they're also
willing to pay the price point that you
want so in our case what we saw was that
when we started with a lower price point
as the product evolved we found better
and better customers who are willing to
meet that price point but also they
wanted more from the product and you had
to go and build that product
so uh you know as we saw that uh
you know companies really have like this
kind of unidirectional view of their
customers uh what they really need to be
thinking about is you know how do you
continuously assess which customers you
want and then which customers you don't
want now in both of these buckets you
might have customers who are
you know they're just not bought into
the vision of what you're selling and
this is something i've seen you know
sales leaders and founders struggle with
a lot is to just saying no to those
customers right you don't have to get
every customer through the door you know
sometimes relationships don't work out
and that's fine
and if you come to a point where you're
able to say no then you'll actually know
which segments that you need to target
next and the same goes for uh new
customers so often you know you'll think
that okay if this new customer comes in
and i meet 15 of their feature requests
and i you know tune my engineering
roadmap towards it uh you know things
will be great and i'll probably soon
start landing you know more and more and
more and more deals uh at that point
also you probably need to say no and
it's a it's a tricky balance it's kind
of more art than science because you
have to kind of you know factor in all
the metrics that you know you know what
is your momentum right now what are the
calls that you need to take uh at a
tough level but it's extremely important
to say no to some of your existing
customers and probably some of your
new customers
now another way
we look at that is you know your
opportunity pipe so when you're kind of
looking at your sales funnel the goal is
you know always to get customers through
the door where you get a closed one deal
and the way i thought about it and
along with you know leaders at postman
was that not only we are seeing uh
you know purely through a sales motion
how our opportunity uh is expanding just
by reaching more and more customers but
really how are we expanding the target
segment by uh factoring in that feedback
that we got from our early customers so
that we could attack you know newer and
probably bigger and better sections of
the market so uh
that's the job of you know kind of keep
product leaders to internalize and
always keep looking at that it's not
like you hand the baton over to the
sales team and say that go and sell and
you just measure you know how much error
you had but you also kind of need to
look at in a very honest way how your
opportunity pipe is evolving over
time we also saw that you know companies
don't educate and train employees as
well as customers on their story
so uh what typically happens is you know
you you launch your first product there
is some product market fit and everybody
thinks that you know uh off to the races
and what happens is that people build uh
a very narrow view of the market so if
it's one feature that it feature itself
becomes the whole market and uh
you know when when that kind of hits
your customers are not giving you the
adjacencies of the market that you
should probably probably be looking at
uh and the same goes for employees
employees that you bring in and you're
training you know support reps success
rep sales reps marketing reps you know
they are trying to kind of get their
collateral out of the door and uh
you know it's the job of the leader to
tell them that how the space is going to
evolve over time so you can bring
customers along those journey uh along
those journeys so we saw that you know
uh happen at postman and we had to work
actively to uh to defend against this
bias
so what about sales you know sales is an
amazing channel and i'll talk about that
in a second but the core bias here is
you know to sell and to tell a story so
uh
when you see sales teams out in the
field you know they
want to hear uh very very specific
things and it's for that moment in time
to kind of close that particular sale or
a bunch of opportunities they have it's
very hard for sales leaders to say no
and the support from a product leader
can help a lot in uh helping them think
through this but that typically does not
happen because companies are
incentivized you know on air our goals
and uh kind of like those
insights and facts get hidden you know
under the rug so uh you know we audit
our sales pipeline a lot you know we
look at you know what the customers said
you know tools like gong help a lot
especially in the remote selling world
where you can
uh with the permission of your customers
record that activity and analyze it but
the same goes for like post sales notes
so you have to kind of find those uh
nuggets inside and i'll talk about that
in a second how we do it but
because of this bias to sell you get
only a particular kind of feedback and
as a leader you have to see that you
know you are in some ways uh looking at
a an annual or a quarterly clock and
those time pressures then force you to
do certain things uh and and just you
know kind of listen to like what will
get this thing done
and
the the surprising thing i saw
was
this uh
this pattern repeats itself at almost
all ar thresholds so whether you are a
10 million dollar company or if you get
to 100 million dollar company or you
know even a billion dollars in err
growth rates eventually stall and this
whole cycle repeats itself uh where you
know you have to then find new insights
and figure out what you want to do next
so in some ways i kind of felt back bad
that you know as a founder that you
might never be happy but you know i'm
happy
about building our vision but
what what really made me then think
about this was you know how do how can
product let companies be continuously
innovating and uh once you run out of
your original hypothesis you know how do
you find new ideas to attack the market
and solve customers problems and as you
know jeff bezos said that customers are
always unhappy that is true in almost
all markets you know they they always
want more and that's a one fun that's
the one fundamental fact that we can you
know base our businesses on we just have
to actively listen
so
how do you solve you know
i have a bunch of practices to kind of
uh
uh instrument your company with and i'll
share like you know how we kind of did
this and a few examples of you know how
it works at postman
so uh
the first thing that i recommend
founders is you know
do you have product and user fit now the
funny thing about software is that we
all believe software to be valuable but
you know most software in the world goes
unused people don't want to use it and
you know they don't want to come back to
it so before you kind of attack
your market you have to see for a
product-led business is your software
actually getting used or not and that's
where your design team your early
product team has to go and talk to
customers and the best uh you know
people to talk to customers are founders
themselves if founders have haven't done
that
it means that there will be a lack of
insight
into the business at future points in
the journey
so the way we instrumented this at
postman was we started a support channel
and the support channel initially was
just my email so people would just email
me and say that i have this problem at
postman and that problem at postman and
you know instead of saying that hey you
know go go
uh
go to the community you know i made sure
that i answered all those queries and
then my co-founders answered those
queries and then that's how actually we
got our first zendesk instance and for
the first two years postman founders
were the highest
ticket solvers with the highest c sat
rates uh at the company and we continued
that we still have our zendesk accounts
and you know but then we integrated
zendesk with slack so everybody in the
company could see which support queries
are coming through and sometimes you'll
notice that you know the same kind of
query is coming over and over again
that's the thing you feed back into the
product so if you're not doing that then
of course you're handling you're hiring
more and more support reps which is also
not scalable so kind of the system works
in check if you kind of have the right
metrics and the right systems to
instrument it we also took that so uh
took that over to the community and you
know often this question comes up is
like who's going to handle the community
and for us it is again you know product
managers founders and engineers who are
building the product because they have
that insight about what exactly is going
wrong with the product and how fast to
fix it and i'll talk about culture in a
second as well like how do you kind of
build the right culture for it but those
those are the core systems that you want
to put in place in a product led company
and today you know our support team is
you know that we have super high c sat
rates all these things go back to the
product and we make it a point to go to
the ticket filer that hey you helped us
fix that issue
the other system we instrumented was our
customer success teams now uh often the
notion of customer success is in a post
sales process where an enterprise sale
is done and then the customer success
managers are going to come in and help
the product get
adopted in a product line model it kind
of flips over where no matter how small
a customer is you have to make sure that
there is somebody who has eyes on it and
what csms can help you do is uh look at
your target opportunity and expand the
market because they are in that critical
onboarding step of your customer uh
customers journey and they can help
identify you know what are the blockers
in the product and where exactly things
can be automated and streamlined so you
take uh you you put uh csms on it feed
that data back into the product and your
product is you know uh hopefully better
for the next iteration which is sales
now that's where sales come in comes
into the equation now uh the way
we thought about the sales cycle is that
it's kind of like this choreographed
experience between the buyer and the
seller and our sales team knows what
exactly the product is
what are the strengths how do they
defend against you know their weaknesses
and in that sales process you uncover a
lot of objections you see feedback
coming in from you know why buyers are
not going to you know buy the product
why they are not going to scale so uh
not only do you learn about the product
but you also learn about your
competition and what is the market
perception of the product that is out
there so you take all these learnings
and as you go through successive cycles
uh in in the sales function you can bake
that into the product and you know i
don't have marketing here but that also
plays a key role that all of this stuff
needs to be you know coordinated by the
marketing team who will uh
who will take all this feedback convert
it into collateral and it's kind of a
coordinated play between product and
marketing uh you know to to attack
customers problems in in you know
successive iterations
so uh
you know the
the final bit here is that eventually it
goes back to your company culture you
need to build a culture of constant
iteration and you need to empower people
to come up with ideas and implement
those ideas now it's okay that not all
ideas are going to be great you know but
just the fact that your company is
generating ideas with all of these touch
points can help empower you know product
team sales success marketing everyone to
do better
so uh we look uh at that a lot and you
know your ops teams within hr and
finance actually also have a role to
play so if you are only incentivizing
for specific okrs you've kind of
narrowed down the scope of the
creativity of people and what we like to
look at it is kind of in the opposite
way on how operational systems can help
enhance the creativity of people because
you know they are they are in front of
customers and they are gathering kind of
all these data all these data and
insights and feeding it back into you
know the company
so uh the thing we learned in our
journey was you know this this model
uh it it looks great you know you can
build a product and you know it probably
uh you know the belief is that it'll
sell itself but uh you know even if it
does it takes a lot of discipline to get
right and you have to make sure that you
know you're you're training your
customers you're training your employees
for this journey and not for a specific
event
so uh
you know one one interesting thing that
we learned was
uh you know names have a particular
power and when you decide to you know
hire someone in sales hire someone in
product hire someone in marketing if
they come from a non-plg company they
might not have the right cultural uh
intuitions to fit into this model and we
had to you know kind of bake that in and
we had to we had to invest in onboarding
and training a lot to make sure that
people get this motion the fact that you
know your product is going to be out and
it's not going to be perfect and people
are going to say something about it and
the company can accept it is is a very
very big shift in the perception of a
lot of people when they come from you
know different kinds of cultures
uh you know we had to kind of shift the
motion
entirely for functions like customer
success where
they were you know effective in a post
sales process in their prior roles and
we had to you know make them comfortable
that even if it's a thousand dollar ar
customer it makes sense to go and talk
to them so we had to build new playbooks
and you know we had to build the right
culture to make to be successful
you know along with your employees and
your company uh kind of like the inside
walls of the company you also need to
make sure that you know you're training
your customers so when customers know
that there is an avenue of feedback that
they can use and help uh improve the
product customers are super invested in
the journey they want to help you and
they know that you know it's not just a
sale that they're getting the end of the
day but a process that a journey or a
partnership that they are in with with
that company so some of our customers
you know from five six years ago are
paying us you know five five times ten
times larger just because of the fact
that what they believed where the
product will go is where it's at and we
valued their feedback and baked them in
so uh you know of course your product
goes and does its thing and you're
helping improve the product but you're
also supporting your you know sales
success and support organizations and
what they're doing is they're constantly
reducing friction in in an ideal world
what it looks like is your average asps
your arr keeps increasing there are
shorter sales cycles and there are
shorter onboarding cycles and as you
kind of go towards that flywheel you'll
see each of these functions just play a
critical role
so i have some screenshots of you know
how that looks like at postman so
you know you'll see our twitter channel
our github channel here you know it's
open you can you can search for that we
have about 1500 feature requests open on
postman today i think we have solved and
probably 2 000 of them since we started
as a company
you know the scale of the engineering
organization was actually indexed
alongside this and our engineers and
product managers and engineering
managers are incentivized to kind of go
and you know communicate honestly and
transparently so if you have a feature
request for postman you can file it here
and we'll address it you know we had to
build lots of systems to do that at
scale you know we even had a sentiment
analyzer which would you know plug this
into a machine learning model and then
you'll know like today people were like
angry or happy at postman and that was
very interesting we also plugged that
into slack and you could then you know
like we could use our employees to rate
that sentiment which was an interesting
nerdy exercise but not something i
recommend everyone to do with your
engineering teams maybe there's a
product somewhere here that does it for
you
twitter is an interesting channel i love
twitter a lot but i also kind of you
know
uh
you know when customers come to you
they're in a very emotional state and
you want to make sure that you direct
them to the right uh place so uh
you know in twitter somebody would be
like hey this thing sucks and you know i
want to i want to see this fix like
right away we're like we agree let's
chat on zendesk or let's set up a call
and then you know the uh the
conversation becomes much more
meaningful both for the company
and for the customer if you have it on
you know twitter and you know
everybody's angry nobody wins so that's
that's what we kind of learned from this
thing all of this by the way is piped
into slack channels for the company for
all the 500 employees at postman to see
and rate and comment and we have
interesting discussions there around
this
now once you kind of get your uh
incoming feedback cycle sorted you can
plug that into your product development
process so uh
for for that to work well you need to
have really really fast releases and i
mean fast like really fast which means
that you know uh
even a day and that was kind of like a
benchmark we set for ourselves when the
postman founding team was just three
people we were all developers and
engineers you know we'd see a bug and
yes we could have put better tests to
fix it and that's what postman helps you
do now but we would just see the bug
write the code fix it push it to
production and tell the customer the bug
is fixed and those cycles really help
build that trust of course you should
not have like a buggy product in general
so i'm not advocating for that but as
you uh go towards a faster and faster
release cycle you just see the nature of
your community change so we still uh
hold ourselves uh up to that we had to
structure our entire engineering
organization to be
ready to do fast releases we had to put
support processes we had to put security
process to make sure that still
holds up
and uh finally if you do kind of all of
these things right and you are able to
put together the feedback that you're
seeing from your customers the value
that you're able to communicate about
your product what you might end yourself
up in is reinventing a category and
that's what i believe the best product
led companies are capable of because
they're listening to customers and they
have a new product a new way of doing
things they can actually lead and tell
the market
where exactly this category should be
going so we don't have to look at the
old ways of doing things as a
product-led company you can you can
invent you know the future and that's
what we've been trying to do with you
know uh uh the the api platform category
that we announced lately all of this was
the sum total of like the six seven
years of feedback that we received and
when we put it out you know the the most
interesting reactions we got was that
this this makes a ton of sense and thank
you for putting it out there so the you
know the the biggest impact of that is
that eventually when you do go and
market at scale you're using the words
that customers understand and hear and
your marketing uh function you know also
has a much much bigger impact
[Music]
you